Let's read Colossians 3 16 through 17.
But the word of Christ dwelling you richly, teach admonish one another and all wisdom with all gratitude in your hearts, sing Psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs to God.
And whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving thanks to the Father through Him.
This is the word of God for the people of God.
Thanks be to God.
In the year 2000, either I think she must have had a traumatic brain injury or was injured, but somehow Holly agreed to marry me.
And I don't know how that happened, but I thank God for it every day.
But you know, it's one thing when you're dating somebody and you're kind of going about life.
And then it's another thing when you say, let's get married and you realize, oh no, we're getting married.
Okay, things are going to change.
And so after she agreed to marry me, I began to realize, wow, I need to mature.
Like I really, I'm gonna have responsibility for another person here.
I'm not really sure, I'm ready for what's fixing to happen.
So I went to one of my favorite professors in seminary, Dr. Nick Cleaver, we talk about.
And I sat with Dr. Nick, I said, Dr. Nick, I'm gonna get married soon.
And I know that spiritually,
I need to mature.
I need to really mature in my faith and my spirituality and who I am as a person for what's fixing to happen here.
So I would love if you would be willing to be my spiritual director to help me grow.
And Dr. Nick said he was honored that I asked, but he did not have the time to commit to that.
So he connected me with one of his friends who
was an Episcopal priest in Collierville, Tennessee at St. Andrews, Jeff Marks.
And Jeff became a really close friend and a really trusted God in my spiritual journey.
And so many of the things that I do spiritually now are things that Jeff taught me many years ago.
The way I pray, the way I read scripture, the way I do my morning devotions were tools that Jeff helped me learn that have been faithful guides to me for nearly 30 years now.
But one of the things Jeff always said to me is something that stuck with me, that I've pondered and meditated upon for all of my life since them because it's been so impactful to me.
Every time we finish our conversation, Jeff would always say, Andy,
Read your Bible, pray, and stay in love with God's people.
Read your Bible, pray, stay in love with God's people.
That's probably the three best pieces of advice I've ever been given.
I've found that if I do these things and that if we do these things collectively as God's people, God's gonna move and God's gonna work
And God's going to do things.
And so that's a concept that I've pondered and meditated on a lot.
And I've preached on it several times.
So for the next few weeks, a couple of weeks back, we talked about being salt and light and how we as Christians are supposed to be different from the world we live in.
Last week, if you watch the line, we talked about how Jesus tells us in John 17, three, what eternal life is.
And eternal life is knowing the Father
And Jesus Christ whom he has sent.
So we're salt and light.
Well, how are we salt and light?
We know Jesus.
Well, how do we know Jesus?
The next three weeks, we live out the advice my friend, Jeff gave me.
We read our Bible, we pray.
And then instead of the way I've kind of adapted staying in love with God's people, I kind of say, I say that as go to church, but there's a lot to that.
So there's a lot.
We'll get there in a couple of weeks.
But we're gonna talk about how do we know Jesus?
How is that if we're, if eternal life is knowing the Father and the Son who he has sent, how is it that we know the Father?
How is that we know the Son?
And I'm convinced the best ways that we do this are kind of something Leslie called the means of grace.
We read our Bible, we pray, and we are part of the community of God.
So that's what we're gonna talk about.
Today we're gonna talk about reading our Bible and why that matters.
And basically how do we do it?
So if you go in my office, so I am, there's a word for me.
I think the theological word is sucker is what I am.
Cause I love books and people know that I love books.
So you know what I get given?
A lot of old books by preachers.
When I first started preaching, I was at my little Delta Church, Boyle, Lynn and Lytton, you know, I'm Methodist churches.
And some of you preachers,
J.G.
Babb?
I don't know if y'all knew J.G.
J.G.
was serving Boyle as a retired preacher.
And Brother J.G., he moved from Boyle to the method of senior services in Hernando.
I never came from which one it is.
And Brother J.G.
said to me, Andy, you know, you're young.
You're starting your ministry.
You know, you need a good library.
So let me give you my library, which at the time I thought, that's so sweet.
Oh.
That's so sweet.
This kind, passage, give me a library.
No, he didn't want to move his stupid books.
So he gave them to me.
Yeah, no.
Mitchell's trying to give me books now.
I'll probably take them.
So I have so many books now.
And I told Holly, one day these books will be yours and I expect you to keep them.
And you said what?
Nope.
But I do I love old books and one one of my favorite things that I have is frankly, it's Rayford and Henderson's I have book of disciplines of the Methodist Church going back to like the 30s I Have every united Methodist book of disciplines ever been published and most of the Methodist Church once I I but I even have a couple Methodist Episcopal South disciplines from the 1800s and
I love it.
Like I'm a Methodist nerd.
I'm a history nerd.
I love these old things.
So if you come in my office, when the first thing you see this bookshelf, that's just nothing but method of stuff, disciplines, Wesley stuff, Fletcher, Asbury, love that kind of stuff.
So if you go there, you'll see all that.
So I have all these disciplines and I have a ton of them.
But I have more Bibles.
Because as much as I love the discipline, I love the Bible more.
And a sacred is the discipline is to me, the Bible's more sacred.
And as a United Methodist, the value of the discipline is nothing in the discipline itself.
The discipline is just a bunch of words that a bunch of people edit and change every four years.
The sacredness of the discipline to me comes from the fact that I made a promise by God to keep it.
Like that's, that's what makes it important.
That's not the book itself, but the promise I made to God.
But the Scriptures,
The Scriptures themselves are sacred.
They're beautiful.
I've got bibles from...
I had a United Methodist pastor friend from Russia.
I have a Bible in Russian.
I have bibles in all manner and languages.
I have every translation I can think of.
I just love...
I love the Bible.
I just love it so much.
It's funny.
My Bible study is always the night to pick on me.
Because I'll read a passage of Scripture.
And I'll say, you know, that's my favorite verse of the Bible.
And they'll say, Andy, you say every verse you read is your favorite verse of the Bible.
And I kind of say, yeah, I do.
Because every verse there, every verse means something.
Every verse is sacred.
There was an early heresy in the church that believed that only the New Testament was inspired.
And that's not something we believe.
We believe that Deuteronomy is every bit as inspired as Matthew.
Now they're going to teach us something differently.
and they're going to have a different thing to tell us.
So I don't really like when churches say we're a New Testament church.
No, we're a whole Bible church.
The whole thing matters.
So well, then, okay, preacher, if we believe in all the Bible, then why do we stand for the Gospels?
It's a good question.
I'm glad you asked.
The reason when we stand for the Gospels is kind of related to something in Colossians.
Colossians is one of those books I say, we know I do love Colossians.
Colossians has this
one beautiful verse in the beginning of it, Colossians 115, talking about Jesus, where Paul says that he is the visible image of the invisible God, that Jesus Christ is the visible image of the invisible God.
So, if you want to know the Father, what do you do?
You look to the Son.
If you want to understand the heart
of the Father, you look to the Son, Jesus Christ.
If you want to see the Father, you look to the Son.
Well, how do we look to the Son?
We read the Gospels.
So the Gospels, we do not believe the Gospels are more inspired, are more important, are holier than the rest of Scripture, but we do believe that the Gospels give a special insight to the heart of the Father, because it's the cause to the Gospels.
That's where we see Jesus Christ.
That's where we get to read His words and read His stories and read His life.
So the gospel are not more inspired, but they do give a special insight into the heart of the Father.
So that's why we stand when we read the Gospels.
It's because they do give us that special insight.
But all the Bible's sacred, y'all.
All the Bible matters.
All the Bible is inspired by the Holy Spirit.
And that's why
Today's passage is one of my favorites.
I love what Paul says there.
Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly.
What a beautiful way to put it.
When I hear Paul say that, the image I think of is like marinating something.
You know how when you're gonna cook out or cook something or smoke something?
You take that piece of meat out and then I before you put your marinade on it and you let that marinade soak into it right until it covers every crack and every crevice and it just gets in deep inside of that meat that you're going to smoke.
You let that marinade just soak it in and soak it up until it just consumes almost that piece of meat that you're going to cook.
Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly.
God's words shouldn't marinate us, friends.
We should be soaking up and soaking in.
God's word.
Scripture shouldn't marinate us.
It should be our constant friend and our constant companion and just be such a regular part of our life that we can't differentiate ourselves from it because it's always with us.
Let God's word dwell in you richly.
That's what scripture's for friends is to dwell within us and to marinate in us, to change us.
We do not read the Bible
for head knowledge.
We read the Bible for heart transformation.
Let me say that again.
We do not read the Bible for head knowledge.
We read the Bible for heart transformation.
It doesn't matter that you know it here, as much as it has changed here.
It doesn't matter that you can quote the Bible chapter in verse.
What matters is that the Bible, you can quote chapter in verse, changes your life and changes your heart and changes your love.
Cause friends, let me, let me be honest with you.
All of us in here that can quote the Bible, by the way, nothing wrong, quote the Bible.
Let me see a lot of folks like to knock Bible drill.
I love some Bible drill.
I love learning the Bible.
I think we should all memorize the Bible.
I think there should be some verses scripture that you've got memorized deep in your heart.
Like I think there are some verses of the Bible that are just deep inside my heart that are going to overflow.
So I love the Bible and I love learning the Bible and I love memorizing the Bible.
But it's not about memorizing it, it's about letting it transform you.
Because you know who else knows the Bible chapter and verse?
The devil.
The Bible says you believe that God is one, you do well.
The devil believes in shutters.
So the devil knows the Bible, but the devil has not been transformed by the Bible.
It's not about knowing it as much as it is about being transformed by it.
Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly.
It should transform how we live, how we speak, how we serve, how we love, how we teach, how we care, how we are faithful, how we give.
The Bible should transform all that we are because the Bible is what Wesley called a means of grace.
It is an agent of transformation of our life.
That's why I love to teach the Bible.
That's why I do rooted in Christ every morning.
Because if you want to give me a gift, read your Bible.
If you want to show your appreciation for my ministry amongst you, read your Bible.
Because I believe there's no greater way to change your life, grow your faith, and sanctify your heart than by reading God's Holy Word.
There's no greater friend or companion outside of Jesus we have than Holy Scripture.
And whenever I put anything on Facebook, thoughts I have, I hope you always notice how often they are bathed in Scripture.
I want to make sure that the Bible is determining how I live, how I love, how I serve, how I live out the gospel.
Let the word of Christ richly dwell within you.
It's not about head knowledge, it's about heart transformation.
So if you want to know the mind of God, the will of God, the heart of God, bathe yourself in Scripture.
Well, how do we do that?
Well, friends,
The way I put it is I would rather you read one verse well than a thousand badly.
To read one verse well to me means to read the Bible with a listening ear.
When you read the Bible, ask yourself, what jumps out to you?
What speaks to you?
What is it that convicts you?
What does that pushes you?
What does that pulls you?
Where do you feel something in your heart resonating with this?
To read the Bible,
Not with an already made-up mind, but we read the Bible in the same way that Samuel spoke to the Lord.
When the Lord called him, when he was a child, here's your servant, Lord, speak.
We should approach the Bible with open hands and open hearts listening.
We don't need to approach the Bible with our mind already made up or with our fist clenched.
We need to approach the Bible with a spirit of humility, a posture of humility, a posture of Lord, teach me a posture of Lord, let me learn a posture of not always having the right answer, but knowing the right question and listening.
That's why the Bible friends, Dr. Nick said in seminary, the Bible's meant to be read personally, but not privately.
That means I read my Bible.
You read your Bible, but you know what I'm supposed to do about it?
I'm supposed to talk to you about it.
That's why I love Bible studies so much because like I said this in Bible study Wednesday night.
My was in that Bible study, those of you who are in there, no, we have some pretty deep conversations in Wednesday nights.
Like we go to some pretty deep and even sometimes pretty uncomfortable places, because we're trying to learn.
But what I love about Bible study is it's a two-way conversation.
If I say something folks don't like, they can go, I don't know about that preacher.
I doubt many of you are going to stop my sermon and say, I don't know about that preacher.
You might, that could be fine.
We'll see what happens.
I haven't had it happen before.
But the Bible's meant to push us to have deeper conversations about God's Word.
What is He teaching me?
What is He teaching you?
Where can we learn?
How can we learn together?
How can God transform us together?
Because friends,
That's why I love this passage here, because we see perfectly how it lays out.
So what does verse 16 say?
Let the word of Christ dwell on you richly.
Why?
Verse 17.
So in everything you do, in thought, word, or deed, do it to the glory of the Father, through Jesus Christ the Son.
We see what it teaches us.
Let's read that to you again.
Let me read this to you again.
We're gonna read the Bible again, listen to it.
I want you to hear what we're told to do.
Let the word of Christ dwell in your richly.
Teach and admonish one another in all wisdom with gratitude in your hearts.
Sing Psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs to God.
And whatever you do in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving thanks to God the Father through him.
So in the word of God marinates within us.
When the Word of God weakly dwells within us, it breaks down the division of what's called the sacred and the profane.
The sacred is this 10, 30 to 11, 30, 11, 45, noon, time of worship.
And the profane is everything outside of here.
That's not the way it works.
All of life is God's.
Every moment, every hour, every task is God's.
So you don't just worship God when you sing praises on Sunday morning.
You worship God by how you do your job on Tuesday afternoons.
You worship God with the integrity that you live with on Wednesday mornings.
You worship God by how you treat folk in Walmart and everything you do in word or deed due to the glory of God, the Father, the Jesus Christ, the Son.
There is no division of God's time at our time.
It's all God's time.
So when God's word transforms us, we don't see our activities as separate from our faith.
You're social media usage.
That's God's time.
The way you budget.
The way you teach your children.
That's God's time.
The way you love.
Those that you just want to pinch their necks.
That's God's time.
There is no division between the sacred and the profane because it all belongs to our Father.
Our God has to cattle on a thousand hills.
And there is not an ounce of our life that should not be marinated in God's Word.
There's not an ounce of our life, not an inch of our life that should not be transformed by the power of God's Spirit.
Whenever the Bible is go, go from being head knowledge to heart transformation, it's when our lives seriously begin to shift into chasing Jesus Christ and all things.
Read your Bible.
There's no better or more practical way that you can grow your faith than by reading the Bible.
And just a little inside baseball, speaking for preachers here, I can promise you.
There's nothing we preachers would rather do than talk to you about Scripture.
There's nothing we'd rather do than have a conversation with you about the Bible.
We go to meetings because we have to.
We talk about the Bible because it's our very heartbeat.
Read your Bible, friends.
If you want to see God change your life, read His Word.
And made that Word dwell in us richly.
In the name of the Father and the Son.
Holy Spirit.
Let's pray.